# Studio vs. Pure IDE

Both Studio and Pure IDE are tools to edit data models. They are web applications relying on separate backends to work and they both use a Pure graph of `metamodel` as their UI state. However, they are very different things:

- **Usage:** Studio is used to edit end users' data models, where as Pure IDE is used to edit meta constructs in [Pure core system](https://github.com/finos/legend-pure).
- **Target users:** Pure IDE is meant for meta-programming, for the developers of core Pure system. Studio is tailored for data modelers, we attempt to provide helpful and powerful interface for these folks to use - this is something the Pure IDE never aims to provide.
- **State management:** Pure IDE is a light-weight UI whose state is stored in the backend; whereas Studio's state is stored with the web application and Studio depends on the stateless backend like `legend-engine` for actions like `compilation`, `execution`, etc. Therefore, this puts a constraint in terms of resources in a different ways: Pure IDE requires resources on host which can be scaled quite easily; Studio is limited by the browser's tab resource, which is not very scalable. At least, that's the situation at the time of speaking; our long term plan is to migrate Studio off the web platform to follow code editors like `Atom`, and `Visual Studio Code` which can run on OS.
- **State representation:** Pure IDE needs the `fully-built` Pure graph to do meta-programming, to facilitate type-checking, function matching, etc. On the other hand, Studio's graph is not `fully-built`, there are places we left unprocessed because we don't need to support editing them in form mode-i.e. we only build the graph just enough for us to construct form editors for models user need to care about. That being said, Studio provides an option for advanced modelers to use text-mode, which is similar to the Pure IDE experience.

By showing these differences, we do not mean to convince you that one tool is superior to the other: each is designed for its own purpose. Studio is a form editor that _understands_ Pure as it builds the Pure graph in-memory to help with edition in forms. Pure IDE, on the other hand, has the bulk of its complexity in the backend where it builds the full graph in order to facilitate meta-programming.
